RFC: Fine-grained Timeout Configuration (#816)
awslabs/smithy-rs: design/src/rfcs/rfc0007_timeout_config.md

  builder is generated alongside it to make construction easier.
- **AWS Client**: A specialized Fluent Client that defaults to using a `DynConnector`, `AwsMiddleware`, and `Standard`
  retry policy.
- **Shared Config**: An `aws_types::Config` struct that is responsible for storing shared configuration data that is
  used across all services. This is not generated and lives in the `aws-types` crate.
- **Service-specific Config**: A code-generated `Config` that has methods for setting service-specific configuration.
  Each `Config` is defined in the `config` module of its parent service. For example, the S3-specific config struct
  is `use`able from `aws_sdk_s3::config::Config` and re-exported as `aws_sdk_s3::Config`. In this case, "service" refers to an AWS offering like S3.

### HTTP stack terms

- **Service**: A trait defined in the [`tower-service` crate][tower_service::Service]. The lowest level of abstraction we deal with when making HTTP requests. Services act directly on data to transform and modify that data. A Service is what eventually turns a request into a response.

> - **Layer**: Layers are a higher-order abstraction over services that is used to compose multiple services together, creating a new service from that combination. Nothing prevents us from manually wrapping services withing services, but Layers allow us to do it in a maintainable, flexible, and generic manner. Layers don't directly act on data but produce a new compose service that does. Layers can be thought of as middleware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Layer**: Layers are a higher-order abstraction over services that is used to compose multiple services together, creating a new service from that combination. Nothing prevents us from manually wrapping services withing services, but Layers allow us to do it in a maintainable, flexible, and generic manner. Layers don't directly act on data but instead can wrap an existing service with additional functionality, creating a new service.. Layers can be thought of as middleware.
```

- **Middleware**: a term with several meanings,
  - Generically speaking, middlewares are similar to Services and Layers in that they modify requests and responses.

>   - In the SDK, Middlewares have the specific meaning of being the only kind of struct that contains a `DispatchService`.

Reviewer: this is slightly more subtle. A middleware is a layer which can only wrap a service whose input type is `smithy_http::operation::Request` and whose output type is `operation::Response` (the dispatch service has that shape).

I might say:
- In the SDK, "Middleware" refers to a layer that can be wrapped around a `DispatchService`. In practice, this means that the resulting `Service` (and the inner service) must meet the bound `T: where T: Service<operation::Request, Response=operation::Response, Error=SendOperationError>`.

>   - Examples of Middleware include [MapRequest], [AsyncMapRequest], and [ParseResponse]. **TODO** is this true or am I getting things mixed up?

Reviewer: I would probably add `AwsMiddleware`, the combination of all middlewares required to assemble an SDK

- **DispatchService**: Connects Operation driven middleware to an HTTP implementation. It will also wrap the error type in OperationError to enable operation middleware reporting specific errors.

>   - **TODO** This definition is taken directly from a code comment. It makes it sound like this is the first and last layer that gets hit when making a request; Is that actually the case?

Reviewer: it is the "most inside" layer of the onion, if you will

- **Connector**: a term with several meanings,
  - (esp. `DynConnector`) generally refers to a service that handles HTTP. HTTP is the lowest level we handle
    - Dyn means that we're erasing the inner type

>     - **TODO** is this then a Service that we've erased the type of?

Reviewer: yep! A service like `T where T: tower::Service<http::Request, Response=http::Response>`

- **Stage**: A form of middleware that's not related to `tower`. These currently function as a way of transforming requests. We don't want to implement Timeouts as stages because we don't want to give them the ability to handle responses. This is because it would introduce lots of new complexity that we aren't yet ready to take on but this may change in the future.
- **Stack**: higher order abstraction over Layers defined in the [tower crate][tower::layer::util::Stack] e.g. Layers wrap services in one another and Stacks wrap layers within one another.

### Timeout terms

- **Connect Timeout**: A limit on the amount of time after making an initial connect attempt on a socket to complete the
  connect-handshake.
    - _TODO: the runtime is based on Hyper which reuses connection and doesn't currently have a way of guaranteeing that
      a fresh connection will be use for a given request._
- **TLS Negotiation Timeout**: A limit on the amount of time a TLS handshake takes from when the CLIENT HELLO message is
  sent to the time the client and server have fully negotiated ciphers and exchanged keys.

>     - _QUESTION: Our HTTP client supports multiple TLS implementations. Is there any reason that that would make

Reviewer: yeah, we probably need library support to enable this

      implementing this feature difficult?_

> - **Time to First Byte Timeout**: A limit on the amount of time an application takes to attempt to read the first byte over

Reviewer: I thing a `write timeout` refers to the send-side equivalent if time to first byte

  an established, open connection after write request.
  - _QUESTION: Is this the same as a "write timeout"? If yes, should we refer to it by that name? Also, if yes, should we not also support "read timeouts" for completeness' sake?_
- **HTTP Request Timeout For A Single Request**: A limit on the amount of time it takes for the first byte to be sent over
  an established, open connection and when the last byte is received from the service.
- **HTTP Request Timeout For Multiple Attempts**: This timeout acts like the previous timeout but constrains the total time
  it takes to make a request plus any retries.

>     - _NOTE: In a way, this is already possible in that users are free to race requests against timer futures with

Reviewer: yeah! we _may_ want to provide this out of the box to help ensure users don't ship code that will wait forever

RFC: Fine-grained timeout configuration
=======================================

> Status: RFC

For a summarized list of proposed changes, see the [Changes Checklist](#changes-checklist) section.

It is not currently possible for users of the SDK to configure a client's maximum number of retry attempts. This RFC
establishes a method for users to set the number of retries to attempt when calling a service and would allow users to
disable retries entirely. This RFC would introduce breaking changes to the `retry` module of the `aws-smithy-client`

> crate.

Author: oops

  builder is generated alongside it to make construction easier.
- **AWS Client**: A specialized Fluent Client that defaults to using a `DynConnector`, `AwsMiddleware`, and `Standard`
  retry policy.
- **Shared Config**: An `aws_types::Config` struct that is responsible for storing shared configuration data that is
  used across all services. This is not generated and lives in the `aws-types` crate.
- **Service-specific Config**: A code-generated `Config` that has methods for setting service-specific configuration.
  Each `Config` is defined in the `config` module of its parent service. For example, the S3-specific config struct
  is `use`able from `aws_sdk_s3::config::Config` and re-exported as `aws_sdk_s3::Config`. In this case, "service" refers to an AWS offering like S3.

### HTTP stack terms

- **Service**: A trait defined in the [`tower-service` crate][tower_service::Service]. The lowest level of abstraction we deal with when making HTTP requests. Services act directly on data to transform and modify that data. A Service is what eventually turns a request into a response.

> - **Layer**: Layers are a higher-order abstraction over services that is used to compose multiple services together, creating a new service from that combination. Nothing prevents us from manually wrapping services withing services, but Layers allow us to do it in a maintainable, flexible, and generic manner. Layers don't directly act on data but instead can wrap an existing service with additional functionality, creating a new service.. Layers can be thought of as middleware.

Author: Do we have any alternative at this point?
